Jaime, we already understand
what CRM is, what departments use
it and for what, but now I would
like to have more knowledge
of the tool itself.
We can describe how it is used
or what the main functionalities are.
We could possibly split it into
three large blocks, which is
true that then each platform is
different and can separate it from
the way let's say you sell licenses
is different, but in general
and what is common to all
is an analytical part.
The moment you have a lot of data
in that system you are storing it
for a reason and it is for making
decisions based on all that information,
that is, what is usually called
business intelligence
and even big data.
All that information we will
analyze it and we will see what type
of customer we have, how we
can segment them, what kind of
message we have to send to each
of which parts we are more fluffy.
Analyze the company and the market.
And the tool that has functionalities,
I understand modules, whatever,
that which allows us to make
filters, cross information, etc.
The vast majority of
tools always have a reporting
part and then you can always
make views on each of these
objects.
Many times they are probably
not all the powerful we need and
that is why it is important
to integrate that maybe with
powerful reporting tools that
allow you to make the advanced
filters you really need.
One of the tips is analytics.
The second leg would be the entire
operational part, that is, how
we will automate processes to be
much more efficient, which would
be free of operational time
that we can use in other things
and that will help us not to
have failures.
In the trading area, we can
automatize the entire sales
process, that is, see a little
how customers move through the
different stages of trading.
We can also analyze what sales
forecasts are, all of this
can be automated and in the marketing
part is something similar.
All the famous customer journey
can be automated, we can
launch those emails or those
SMS or any type of notification
through all this type of tools.
That is, they are tools that allow us,
say, I don't know whether to
design or create actions and program them.
justly.
Even what you do is that they take
action based on certain data.
They can be historical data that you
already have stored or we can put
a component that is very fashionable
now that it is artificial intelligence
and try to predict how the
customer will behave.
That is, if a customer has
entered our website, has been
visiting the price part, we
know if he is interested
in this, we can create a
lead based on this visit.
We, for example, currently use a direct
response marketing system and basically
what we do is deliver a series
of free classes and depending
on whether they have seen one,
two or which, they receive different
emails in which we encourage
them to see them and we get
to empathize, get closer
to them.
And here you have a clear example
of de-automatization, to see a little
how the customer is behaving,
what type of profile he has and according
to that to give him a message
or another and see a little what
that interaction or that reaction
that the customer has we will
have put in our CRM and we will
be able to make decisions based
on that, either automated
or at best you pick up the
phone and call him.
And the last part would be the collaborative
part, we have spoken before all
the departments that are part
of this great strategy,
this great initiative, what is
important is that they do not
work in silos, but compact
information between them.
If I as a marketing manager
have created a campaign, it is
good for my marketing force to
know that the campaign is live
and who the customers are
receiving it.
And also the reverse, that is,
if a trader is going to negotiate
a major contract, during that
period of time that customer
does not have to receive
any communication, no campaign
to avoid spoiling that
trading.
Before it has come out an example
too, the previous class related
to this, with the functionality
of collaboration and we talked
about that customer care, marketing,
sales, especially customer care
and sales, feed information that
allows us to know much better
the customer and other department
that in principle has no reason
to have a lot of relationship
with them, as it can be product
development, I don't know,
and more...
Of course, if you have access, if
you have done well and you
are actually using it collaboratively
and have access to all that
information, because you will
make the decisions about creating
new products that are fundamental
in real interactions
with customers, that not
doing it is a pointless thing.
And if you want, I will give you another
example based a little on what
we were talking about before
the barrier of entry that has
the trade force.
If the trade force is putting all
the business opportunities it has,
we can come to predict if there
is some demand in certain months.
That information can be obtained by
the manufacturing department,
to lower the production levels at best.
If the trading force stops getting
those data or they are not
correct, we will produce much
more than we need and that will
ultimately impact the sales force.
We'll have a much larger stock that
they'll have to take them somehow
forward, so even if it's initially
a lot more work for them
to put all those business opportunities
in and upgrade them,
in the bottom it's going
to be a lot more beneficial
for them.